(Copied from http://indico.cern.ch/conferenceProgram.py?confId=44 and now used in the new programme at http://indico.cern.ch/conferenceProgram.py?confId=13919 - if you change this, make a note so that we can update the Indico site!)

= Refereed Papers =

Ever since the International Python Conference (IPC) stopped running as a separate event, the Python world has lacked a properly prestigious peer-reviewed forum for presenting technical and scientific papers. This track aims to fill that gap.

You can read more about the process of submitting a paper to this track here.

The track chairs are XX (in 2006 : Armin Rigo and Carl Friedrich Bolz).

= Python in Science =

Talks with this theme will focus on the use of Python in science and industry, where tasks include modelling complex systems (thermics, fluid dynamics, mechanics, aeronautics, biology, chemistry, etc.), processing very large data sets and performing very CPU-intensive and long calculations efficiently. Speakers will present tool sets, frameworks and examples of successful applications based on Python and integrated with the other usual tools and applications used in the field.

The track chair is XX (in 2006 : Nicolas Chauvat)

= Python Language and Libraries =

A theme centred on "Python the Language" with all batteries included. Suitable for consideration within this theme are talks about the language, language evolution, patterns and idioms, implementations (CPython, IronPython, Jython, PyPy, CLPython, ShedSkin, and especially any new ones presented for the first time) along with implementation issues and attempts to port Python implementations to new or novel devices. Talks about the standard library or interesting third-party libraries (and frameworks) are also welcome, unless the talks would fit better into one of the other themes.

The track chair is XX (in 2006 : Samuele Pedroni)

= Agile Development =

Agility in software development is a key issue for more and more commercial and F/OSS projects. By Agility we mean both:

  * Methodology and practice aspects (XP, Scrum, Crystal, pair programming, test-driven development, sprints, etc).
  * The people factor (management, group dynamics, community collaboration, community diversity, selling/presenting projects etc).

This track invites talks that targets the following topics:

 * Experience reports and models relating to agile techniques used for tackling challenges in your development project or company (test-driven development and models for distributed workstyles).
 * Presentation and discussion of supporting tools; e.g. for testing, timetracking, collaborative planning or project management.
 * Experience in tackling challenges regarding mixed collaborative teams (tech-non tech people, mixed cultures and agendas, mixed communication styles).

The track chairs are XX (in 2006 : Holger Krekel, Beatrice Düring and Aiste Kesminaite)

= Web Related Technologies =

Python's role in implementing Web applications and solutions continues to evolve, revealing new success stories and a continuous stream of new tools and projects. As with last year's conference, talks traditionally part of the Zope track will take place alongside other Web-related talks as part of a wider Web technologies theme. Join us as we hear about success stories, new ideas about Web programming, and the potential for increased collaboration between projects in the Web domain.

The track chairs are XX (in 2006 : Paul Everitt and Godefroid Chapelle)

= Business and Applications =

This is where EuroPython thinks outside our Python community - about the applications we have written for ordinary people and businesses, and about how we've sold them to the outside world.

  * What Python apps have you written? Tell your fellow Pythonistas about them. Exchange knowledge and maybe gain new business partners.
  * How do you sell your apps and services into the business community?
  * What strategies have you used to convince potential customers and what works for you? Come to think of it, what doesn't work?
  * How do you license your apps? Do you use a Free Software licence or is your application proprietary? Tell us what path you have chosen and why.
  * What have you learnt about introducing new technology into userland?
  * Share your experiences with the community and go home enthusiastic and enlightened.

At previous EuroPythons we have heard about applications as diverse as indexing and searching the US patent database, industrial process monitoring, and payroll management. We have had panels on software patents (more work to do yet, I'm afraid) and licensing.

If you have any questions about how you can contribute to this track, please contact the Track Chairs, but most of all, please send us your proposals for talks for the Applications and Business Track.

The track chairs are XX ( in 2006: John Pinner and Harald Armin Massa)

= Education and teaching =

Are you trying to teach python to somebody? or are you using Python to try to teach something else? The current collection of planned python talks covers a wide range, including teaching to elementary school children, and teaching science to graduate students using Python. It will be rounded out with talks on teaching in Africa, because I happen to know people doing work teaching there. All people who are using python in a teaching environment are welcome, to discuss anything relevant to the teaching experience.

The track chair is XX (NicolasPettiaux volunteers for 2007; in 2006 : Laura Creighton)

= Games and Entertainment =

Games have always provided a compelling motivation for people new to computing and computers to enter the field, often inspiring them to go on and design and implement new games and other forms of entertainment systems. Python provides such people, as well as experienced developers, with a platform to develop anything from simple puzzle games and "retro" arcade games through to three dimensional action games and massive multiplayer online gaming systems.

Python is used commercially for games infrastructure, scripting, and as the main development language of entire games. Meanwhile, there are community events which encourage participants to build a game from scratch in Python in only a week.

However, not all the tools that people use for writing games end up being used that way: many game-related projects are also used for developing entertainment solutions such as personal video recorder (PVR) systems, audio and video players, and presentation tools. Talks with this theme might cover the practicalities of getting started and choosing the right tools, building larger games or gaming platforms, applying game and multimedia libraries in other areas, or even sharing secrets about developing a game in a week and actually getting it finished!

The track chair is XX (in 2006 : Michael Sparks)

= Misfits =

So you don't think your talk fits into any of the existing tracks? Talk to me, and we will see what we can do. Many of the past years best talks (as evaluated by the attendees) first showed up as misfits, so do not feel shy, just mail me.

The track chair is XX ( in 2006 : Laura Creighton)

= Lightning Talks =

Lightning Talks are short (5 minutes) talks about any subject you fancy. This year we'll be having a session of Lightning Talks at the end of each day. Some relevance to Python or Zope or maybe just computers would be preferred, but is hardly essential! Many Lightning Talks will be arranged at the conference, but you can sign up for one in advance too.

Please note that giving a Lightning Talk does not qualify you for the reduced entry offered to speakers on other tracks. Also, experience suggests that trying to give a 30 minute talk in 5 minutes doesn't work -- please plan accordingly!

The track chair is XX ( in 2006 : ? )
 
