The sprint is being held at the [http://www.grand.is Grand Hotel] in Reykjavik, Iceland's capital city and the most Northerly capital in Europe. 

Icelandic time is UTC/GMT, currently four hours ahead of East cost USA (EST) and seven hours ahead of the West coast (PST). No daylight savings time is operated. At the time of the sprint expect the sun to be rising before 4 am and setting well after 11 pm. The sky never fully darkens at midsummer in the Northern extremes, but Reykjavik is a little too far South for the midnight sun.  However, at this time of year it never gets completely dark either.

Flights arrive at Keflavik airport (KEF) outside the city. You have a choice of taking a bus at ISK 1,100, or a taxi. Between 8 am and 6pm the cab fare will be 5,700 ISK, at all other times it will be ISK 8,000 (roughly US $100).

A decent Bus-network is in operation in Reykjavík.  The fare is 220 ISK, paid on entry.

100 Icelandic Kronor is currently worth approximately US $1.25 or €1.13. Banks and hotels will normally accept travelers checks, and credit cards are widely used for both purchases and cash advances.  Credit cards are almost universally accepted regardles of the price of purchase, a notable exception being when paying your bus fare. You will find the cost of living in Iceland significantly higher than many other parts of the world. Reykjavik's cost of living is roughly 135 based on a New York index value of 100.

Tipping is not expected, as service charges are included in bills where appropriate.

Icelanders are known for their hospitality, and when it comes to [http://www.infoiceland.is/infoiceland/nightlife/ nightlife] for their stamina!

The Icelandic climate is cool temperate maritime, but it is extremely variable (Icelanders say "if you don't like the weather right now, wait five minutes"). The temperature is likely to vary between 5°C (40°F) and 12°C (55°F) in late May, so you should make sure you bring substantial sweaters and pants, with a waterproof overcoat and stout shoes if you plan to venture outside much. If we are lucky it might get as hot as 25°C (75°F) but it would be unwise to rely on this possibility.

However, Icelanders also tend to not let the weather affect their dressing mode, so bring some normal clothes too, or risk standing out as tourists.  In particular, you may find that when going out they dress slightly less casually than most countries.  Neckties are not unknown.

Electrical current is 220 volts, 50 Hz and two-pin continental sockets are used. Ensure that your laptop has a universal power supply, and bring an adaptor with you if you can. Please let your camp contact know if you have any doubts about your ability to make use of the Icelandic electricity supply.
