Planning PyCon 2006 will require people for the following positions.  People can 
take on multiple tasks.

'''Conference Chair''' -- keeping track of everything.  (AndrewKuchling)

'''Program Committee Chair''' -- assembles the program committee, to choose the talks and tutorials (NickBastin)

'''Program Software Maintainer''' -- keeps the proposal submission system up and running.  (AndrewKuchling)

'''Volunteer Coordinator''' -- for the hordes of prep and on-site volunteers (DavidGoodger)

'''Registration desk staff''' -- register delegates at the con, and provide information

'''Session Chairs''' -- each formal session needs a person who'll find the speakers before the session, ensure that they talk for the allotted time, help handle questions from the audience, and generally keep the session in good order.

'''Open Space Chair''' -- 

'''Lightning Talk Coordinator''' -- posts calls for talks, and runs the lightning talk sessions on the actual days of the con.  (Jacob Kaplan-Moss, Mike Orr)

'''Web/Wiki author''' -- writes text, keeping the web pages up to date.

'''Graphic Designer''' -- designs a con logo, T-shirts, 
typographical design for flyers/posters/etc. (MichaelBernstein)

'''Publicist''' -- writes and sends out press releases, records press registrations, thinks up good ideas for marketing Python

'''Site Coordinator''' -- liason to the site's manager and staff; responsible for looking over contract, asking questions, transmitting requests.  (Jeff Rush, Ralph Green Jr.)

'''Catering Coordinator''' -- responsible for planning menu, talking to site catering staff, and adjusting
quantities and menus during the con as required.  (CatherineDevlin)

'''Sponsorship Coordinator''' -- responsible for contacting organizations to ask them to sponsor PyCon (SteveHolden).

'''Swag Coordinator''' -- responsible for choosing the bags for carrying stuff, taking delivery of the bags, and coordinating with sponsors to get their flyers, trinkets, etc. into the bags.  (["LDLandis"])

'''Recording Coordinator''' -- responsible for finding audio recording equipment, finding volunteers to sit in the front row and record, getting releases from speakers, encoding audio as MP3/OGG files. 

  ["LDLandis"] plans to participate as a worker volunteer in this group,
  and is willing to be liason until an official coordinator is in place.

'''Registration Coordinator''' -- sets up the registration and credit card processing, prints out registration materials, runs registration at the event.

'''Treasurer''' -- tracks incoming and outgoing money. (Mark Hertel)

'''Shipping Point''' -- it's useful if everything can be delivered to a single reliable place that has storage and where there's usually someone to take delivery of parcels (which can often be heavy). If an SUV or other large vehicle is available to transport everything to the conference site that's even better.

----
CategoryPyConPlanning
