'''''BayPiggies Meetings at Google'''''

BayPiggies will hold meetings at Google on the second Thursday of each month.  This wiki page is a communication tool for visitors to Google for these meetings.  If you plan to attend, please add yourself to the attendee list for each applicable date.

'''Overview'''
 * Time: 7:30 - 9 PM  Please try to get to Bldg. 43 sign-in desk by 7:20 as there may be a line to sign in.
 * Place: Google Main Engineering Campus, Building 43, Tunis Tech Talk (2nd Flr)
 * Directions to Google: http://www.google.com/corporate/address.html#directions

'''Program'''
 

    April12:
    7:35 - 8:20 pm snippets discussion/analysis; newbies night planning 

7:35pm


Topic: snippets 
Snippets typically vary from one to two dozen lines of code. 
Discussion/analysis allows Q&A and other participation (e.g. opinions) 
from attendees. 

Speakers: various 

8:20pm

Newbies Night planning for May 10: 
It's a commitment, Newbies Night is May 10. We'll have to 
promote this beyond the bayPIGgies list. We should determine 
the proper focus during this evening's (April 12) discussion. 


'''Security'''

Please inform 'gate' security that you are a visitor for the BayPiggies Python Users Group Meeting.  If you get a funny look, let them know that you are a guest of Leslie Hawthorn and that you will be checking in with security at Building 43 reception.

'''Parking'''

Any unoccupied parking space outside our underground garage is free game.  Help yourself.

'''Logistics'''
 * We will be putting up signs to help you get to Building 43 reception.
 * We are making arrangements to have the meetings videotaped.
 * You will be pre-registered for the event provided you add yourself to the attendee list below. Pre-registration means that a visitor badge will be available for you upon arrival and you will not need to go through the usual vistor registration process.
 * If you do not pre-register, you will be able to do so on-site at reception, but it will cause some delay for you.  (Note: Much better to pre-register and not show than to not pre-register.)
 * Google Security will escort you from reception to Tunis.

'''Attendee Lists '''

/!\ This page gets edited frequently.  A number of us scan all the wiki updates looking for spam.  It would make our job a bit easier if you were logged in when you edited the page.  The update email address subject would contain enough information for us to conclude that the edit was okay without actually having to open the message.  -- SkipMontanaro 


'''April 12, 2007'''
Click PythonMugSignup to sign up to buy a mug (or three).


Tony Cappellini, San Jose

Stephen Vogel, Moraga, CA

Eric W. Brown, Mountain View, CA

Ken Seehart, ICC, Santa Cruz, CA

*Anna Ravenscroft, Palo Alto Note: I'll be dropping off mugs for folks but may not stay the whole meeting, depending on homework...

* Kelly Yancey, Palo Alto, CA

* Zach Collins, Mountain View, CA

* Ulf Wostner, Berkeley, CA   (could we update this page to show the planned program for April 12? ) (yes, done, js) 

* Yuri Ginsburg, Palo Alto, CA 

jim stockford, San Francisco, CA 

Drew Perttula, Belmont, CA
