##language:en

= Welcome to my page =

I'm not a IT or programming professional, and am only a hobbyist programmer. Python is proving to be a great source of "other things to do" when I'm not feeling like working on my thesis which should be finished ''any day now''. (I'm a PhD student in Philosophy.) 

The most valuable Python resource for beginner's that I know is the PythonTutorList. 

I've recently been trying to start a public project as an off-shoot of, or supplement to, the PythonTutorList. The idea, called the Tutor Code Clinic until someone comes up with something better, is for interested folks to pick a smallish project (such as those found at http://nifty.stanford.edu) write up code for it, and then exchange the code and give each other critiques and comments. It seems worth doing as separate from Tutor as the possible length of code and sustained focus on one task seem to me to run the risk of getting in the way of Tutor's mission. A number of people expressed interest both on the Tutor list and by writing me directly.

Originally, I thought to put up a dedicated wiki page for it. But, until I see if it comes off and how successfully, that seems premature. Knowing I'd want a wiki page here anyway, I started my wiki homepage and I think it is best for now to use this space. If you've come here to participate in planning for the first Code Clinic, there is a section for that below. Please, feel free to contribute. (As in, don't think, "Well, its his homepage, so I better not edit it.")

= The Tutor Code Clinic =

Glad you are interested! I've split this into subsections to try to give some direction. But I'm not a czar, so, feel free to grab the wheel and steer in different directions. I do think it would be best though if people signed their contributions. Crunching first name and last name together like BrianvandenBroek will make a wiki link, so, if you don't want that, space as normal.

Right now, the idea is in its nascent stages. I regret that I chose mid-December as the time to try to get this up and going, but there you have it.

The main questions to address are:
1) Choice of coding task
2) Time frame until we start sharing code.
3) Other issues.

== Choice of task ==
To keep a clear focus, I'd suggest that the first task at least should be drawn from http://nifty.stanford.edu. There are other similar sites, and I will put links here if we get momentum. 

I'm open to any task. The point for me is the exchange, rather than the actual task worked on. I like http://nifty.stanford.edu/2003/randomwriter/ -- it is a fun idea, and fairly small and simple. But any will do. Suggestions? Votes? -- BrianvandenBroek 

== Time Frame ==
The Nifty Assignments are meant to be doable for an undergrad with a full course load in 1 or 2 weeks. To keep momentum, I think a similar time frame would be good. But, given the holiday season (I'm writing December 19th), and some other constraints I have between the 25th and New Year's, either we start pretty well right now, or aim to share code early in the year. --BrianvandenBroek

== Other Issues ==
Make a proper and dedicated wiki page?
Other things? -- BrianvandenBroek

= Links I like =

= General Comments =

Please deface this space.

...

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
