Draft of MOA and byelaws for the proposed society

   

= MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION =

       
 1. Name of the Society : The Name of the society shall be The Indian Society for Promotion and Development of Python Software
 1. Registered office : The Registered office of the society is
 1. Aims & Objectives: : The aims and objects for which the Society is established are as under:
  a. Promotion and development of Python programming language in India.
  a. Conduct of the Annual PyCon India conference.
  a. Working with the Python Software Foundation (PSF) and promotion of it's activities in India.
  a. Advocating and facilitating the use of Python as the primary programming language for teaching in schools, Universities  and in the non formal stream.


All the income earnings, moveable immovable properties of the Societies shall be solely utilized and applied towards the promotion of its aims and objects only set forth in the Memorandum of the Association and no profit on thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividends bonus profits or in any manner whatsoever to the present or past members of the Society or to any persons claiming throughout any or more of the present or past members. No Member of Society shall have any personal claim on any moveable or immoveable properties of the Society nor make any profit, whatsoever by virtue of his Membership.

4. Governing Body: The names, addresses occupations and designations of the present members of the Governing body to whom the management of the Society is entrusted as required under section 2 of the Societies Registration Act 1860 as applicable  are as follows:


||'''S.No.'''||'''Name in capital'''||'''Address'''||'''Occupation'''||'''Designation in the society'''||
||1.||ANAND BALACHANDRAN||#103, Brigade Harmony,Whitefield Main Road,Vartur Kodi, Bangalore-66,KARNATAKA.||Software Professional||
||2.||Sreekanth S Rameshaiah||#6, 8th Cross, 4th Main,Sir MV Nagar, Bangalore - 16||Business Manager||
||3.||NOUFAL IBRAHIM KARUPPAM VEETIL||Karuppam Veetil House, Opp. Govt. Hospital,P.O. Edappal - 679576,Malapuram Dt.,Kerala||Software Professional||

4

to

7

5. Desirous persons: We, the undersigned are desirous of forming a Society namely……………………………… under Societies 
Registration Act 1860 as applicable in pursuance of the Memorandum of Association of the Society.

||'''S.No.'''||'''Name in capital'''||'''Address'''||'''Occupation'''||'''Signature'''||
||1.||ANAND BALACHANDRAN||#103, Brigade Harmony,Whitefield Main Road,Vartur Kodi, Bangalore-66,KARNATAKA.||
||2.||Sreekanth S Rameshaiah||#6, 8th Cross, 4th Main,Sir MV Nagar, Bangalore - 16||
||3.||NOUFAL IBRAHIM KARUPPAM VEETIL||Karuppam Veetil House, Opp. Govt. Hospital,P.O. Edappal - 679576,Malapuram Dt.,Kerala||

4.  

5

Note: The Memorandum should close after clauses given in the above model form.

   6. All the signatures of the desirous persons shall subscribers as given in clause 5 of the Memorandum and must be witnessed by an Oath Commission Notary Public Rs. 3/- Notary stamps affixed or Gazetted officer nee, /Advocate or Magistrate Ist Class with their Rubber official stamps and complete in all respect.
   7. The names of the persons mentioned in clause 4 (Governing body of the model of the Memorandum must necessarily be included under clause 5(i) in the list of desirous persons or subscriber to the Memorandum. This is to say that members of the Memorandum cannot be outside the list of the desirous persons subscribers to the Memorandum. This is essential requirement.
   8. Rules & Regulations: For carrying out the aims and objectives given by the Memorandum and for internal management of the Society rules and regulations may be made by the society these rules and regulations are known to the society.
   9. That these rules and regulations of the society should be filled along with the Memorandum with the registering Authority for the purpose of registration of the society.
  10. 10. If the rules and regulations of the society are inconsistent with the provisions of the Act they are invalid and the fact that till they are invalid and they are deleted with the Registering authority for the purpose of registration of the society cannot be made them valid.

Rules & Regulations:

   1. Name of the Society: The name of the society is The Indian Society for Promotion and Development of Python Software 
   2. Membership defined: Any person who subscribes to the Memorandum of Association of the society is entitled to become a member.
   3. Admission and qualifications of membership. Any person desirous of becoming a member may apply to the Committee in the prescribed manner. The committee shall scrutinize the application and shall admit the person as a member on payment of the prescribed subscription. There shall be the following categories of members:
  a. Donor members: Any person donating a sum of Rupees 1 lakh or more will be a donor member
  b. Corporate members: Any corporate may become a corporate member.
  c. Academic members: Any academic body or institution may become an academic member.
  d. Regular members: Any individual person may become a regular member.
  e. Student members: Any student with proof may become a student member.
   4. Subscription
  a. Donor members do not need to pay an annual subscription
  b. Corporate and Academic members shall pay an annual subscription of rupees 5000 only
  c. Regular members shall pay an annual subscription of rupees 500 only
  d. Student members shall pay an annual subscription of rupees 200 only
   5. Appeal and re-admission of members: all members have a right to appeal to the general body against any decision taken by the committee and non members also may appeal to the general body if they are denied membership or readmission to membership.
   6. Rights and privileges of membership: members shall have all the rights given to members under these byelaws and under the general law of the land. Each member shall have only one vote regardless of category. Student members are not entitled to vote. Corporate and academic members may nominate one person to exercise the voting right.

General Body

   1. General body defined: The General body shall comprise of all members who are not in arrears of subscription the date of the general body meeting. The quorum for a General Body shall be 20 or 20% of the members of the society, whichever is less. The general body may meet physically or by electronic means or a combination of both if the law permits. However the Committee shall endeavor to hold the meeting physically at the time of the annual PyCon.
   2. Power and duties functions of the General body: The General Body shall have full power to pass any decision relating to the society that is permissible by law including amendment of the Memorandum of Association and the Bye Laws provided that the General Body does not have the power to alter the non-profit nature of the society, the basic aims of the society and the restrictions placed on eligibility for committee membership and the terms of office of the office bearers. Provided further that any resolution for expulsion of a member or for amendment as described above shall only be passed by a two thirds majority of members present and voting.
   3. Notices of meeting and periodically of meeting: The General Body will meet once a year. The committee shall give clear 21 days notice of the meeting in any manner permitted by law. By a memorandum subscribed to by at least 30 members or 20% of the membership (whichever is less) the committee shall convene an Extra-ordinary General Body meeting which shall be conducted in the same manner as a General Body meeting and shall have the same powers. 

Managing/Governing/Executive Committee

   1. Executive Committee defined: The Executive committee shall comprise of not more than 15 members elected by the Annual General body
   2. Minimum and maximum strength including office bearers. The committee shall have not less than 5 members and not more that 15 members
   3. Composition: The office bearers will be - President, vice-President, Secretary, Joint-Secretary and Treasurer
   4. Election and its mode. The President and the members of the committee shall be elected at the annual General Body. The committee shall choose the other office bearers from among the committee members. All members desirous of standing for election shall disclose their affiliations to any company or academic institution, and no more than two members affiliated to any specific corporate or academic institution may serve on the committee at the same time.
   5. Terms of the office of the Governing body. The Governing Body shall hold office for a period of one year. No person may hold a particular office in the Executive Committee for more than two terms - consecutive or otherwise. This condition may be relaxed by the General Body for the post of Treasurer.
   6. Powers and duties of the office bearers
   7. Quorum and notice of the meeting
   8. Filling up casual vacancies

   4. Sub-Committee, if any, formation II(composition III) duties and functions.
   5. Sources of income and utilization of funds
   6. Audit or Accounts
   7. Operation of Bank account
   8. Annual List of Managing/Governing body (Section 4 of the Act). Once in every year a list of the office bearers and Members of the Governing body of the society shall be filed with the Registrar of Societies  as required under section 4 of the Societies Registration Act 1860.
   9. Legal Proceedings (Section 6 of the Act)
      The society may sue or be sued in the name of the President Secretary as or be sued in the name of the President, Secretary as per provisions laid down under Section 6 of the Societies Registration Act 1860 as applicable.
  10. Any amendment in the Memorandum of Association or Rules will be carried out in accordance with procedure laid down under section 12 and 12-A of the Societies Registration Act 1860.
  11. Dissolution and Adjustment of Affairs
      If the society need to dissolved it shall be dissolved as per the provisions laid down under section 13 and 14 of the Societies Registration Act 1860 as applicable
  12. Application of the Act
      All the provisions under all the sections of the Societies Registration Act 1860 as applicable shall apply to this society.
  13. Essential Certificate
      Certified that this is the correct copy of the Rules and Regulation of the Society Sd/       Sd/ Sd/ (President) (Secretary) (Treasurer)
----
CategoryPythonIndia
