DRAFT   DRAFT   DRAFT   DRAFT   DRAFT   DRAFT   DRAFT   DRAFT   

THIS IS A DRAFT WITH UNAPPROVED QUOTE:   DO NOT DISTRIBUTE!

---------------------------------------------

  Python Software Foundation (PSF) Sponsors PyCon 2004
  Second Annual Python Developers Conference
  
  FREDERICKSBURG, Va., February ??, 2004 -- PyCon 2004, the second annual 
  Python developers conference, will be held at George Washington University 
  in Washington DC on March 24-26, 2004. Mitchell Kapor, co-founder of Lotus 
  and founder of the Open Source Application Foundation, will be the keynote 
  speaker.
  
  PyCon is a community-oriented conference targeting developers interested
  in Python, a powerful open source programming language.  PyCon provides
  opportunities to learn about significant advances in the Python
  development community, and to meet fellow developers from around the
  world. The conference program includes peer-reviewed presentations, the
  annual Python state of the union address, and open space for informal
  talks and meetings.
  
  "PyCon brings together Python users of all types, from newbies to
  veterans, to exchange ideas, work on code, discuss future directions for
  the language, and in general to foster the continued success and growth
  of the Python technology base. This is a community-oriented conference
  and the Python community includes everyone, from grade schoolers just
  learning about computer science, to renowned scientists interested in
  using the best tools, to business people looking for a secret weapon,"
  said Guido van Rossum, creator of Python.
  
  PyCon 2004 is organized by members of the Python community, and made
  possible by the Python Software Foundation and sponsorship donations
  from Hostway, ActiveState, White Oak Technologies Inc, Tummy.com, 
  ZeOmega, Wing IDE for Python, and many individual donors.
  
  For more information or to register, please visit the PyCon 2004 website:
  http://pycon.org/
  
  Coding Sprints
  
  The conference will be preceded by 4 days of coding sprints, March 20-23,
  which offers developers an XP-style environment to advance the Python
  code base and popular Python-based modules such as the Zope application
  server, Plone content management system, Twisted framework for
  asyncronously programming, Docutils structured text processing system,
  and the Chandler personal information manager.
  
  Planning for the sprints is taking place on the Python wiki at 
  http://www.python.org/cgi-bin/moinmoin/SprintPlan2004
  
  About Python
  
  Python is a powerful object-oriented programming language that is
  developed and maintained by a global community of open source developers,
  under the oversight of the Python Software Foundation.
  
  Python is very easy to learn for programmers of other languages such as
  C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic, and can significantly increase programmer
  productivity.  It is often characterized as an agile language that
  promotes speedy development and includes a unit-testing framework for
  building more robust applications. Python is increasingly used in large
  system development to decrease software costs, mitigate risk, and meet
  aggressive schedules. The language is the basis of applications used by
  tens of thousands of companies and organizations worldwide, and its user
  base is growing rapidly.
  
  Key features of Python include:
  
  * Object orientation, modular name spaces, exceptions, and multi-threading
  * High-level dynamic data typing and very late binding
  * Tight integration with C, C++, and Java modules
  * May be compiled to Java byte code for use in any JVM
  * String and regular expression processing
  * Extensive XML and web services support
  * HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, IMAP, NNTP, telnet, and other IP protocols
  * HTML, MIME, base64, binhex, uuencode, and other internet data handling
  * GUI development and multimedia services
  * Unit testing, profiling, and documentation generation
  * Available third party modules for database access, math, 3D modeling,
  image processing, LDAP, WebDAV, jabber, MIDI, and much more
  
  Python runs on Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Unix, OS/2, WinCE,
  and many other operating systems. Full source code is available for the
  language and associated standard libraries.
  
  Additional information and downloads are available at www.python.org.
  
  About the PSF
  
  The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is a non-profit organization
  devoted to advancing Open Source technology related to the Python
  programming language. The PSF holds the intellectual property rights to
  Python and plans to fund portions of future development of the
  language. Additional information on the PSF is available at
  http://www.python.org/psf. To make a tax-deductible donation, please
  visit http://www.python.org/psf/donations.html. Company sponsorships
  are also being accepted.
  
  Press Contact
  
  Stephan Deibel
  Archaeopteryx Software, Inc.
  PO Box 1937
  Brookline, MA 02446
  617-232-0059
  sdeibel@wingide.com
  http://www.wingide.com/
  
