'''If you have a bug in Python itself, or to get help using Python see:'''  http://www.python.org/about/help/

If you wish to report a bug or to suggest an enhancement for the python.org website, please check first to see if a ticket already exists for the subject you are reporting:

http://pydotorg.python.org/pydotorg/report/1

If your bug has not been reported, please register on Trac (currently requires emailing sdeibel at wingware dot com for help) and add a ticket with suitable categories and priorities:

http://pydotorg.python.org/pydotorg/newticket

Thanks!

----

  Please accept my apologies for editing this page inappropriately as a crude way of making a bug report, but for a simple little item like this it's just not worth the reader's time to go through a non-automated system for registering on Trac. (If I could have registered instantaneously I would have used Trac.) Anyhow, here are the bug reports I wanted to make:
    1. The release date of 2.5.1 on //www.python.org/download is wrong, it says Apr 18, 2006 but it should be 2007. (I would have just fixed it myself if that page were open to edits; I would have registered to edit if the process had been automatic.)  [Fixed; thanks! --amk]
    2. I think you probably have the ACL on this page incorrect, given that I could edit it. :-)  [Free editing is the whole point of wikis.  See the WhyWikiWorks page for a discussion. --amk] [Followup by the same Anonymous: I understand that point, but on the other hand the original information I wanted to fix was not anonymously editable, so I didn't expect this page should be -- I don't understand the inconsistency.   Moreover, leaving my little paragraph and your response here is just going to encourage the next guy who doesn't want to bother to open a Trac ticket to dump his feedback here, which will be a pain for you.  If I were you, I'd either ease the barrier for editing the real content (ie, automatic registration for the main python site, if not anonymous editability which is perhaps going too far) or force users into your desired channels (i.e. make this page not anonymously editable). The tradeoff is quantity of useful input vs quantity of spam. Once again, my apologies for continuing a discussion which is clearly inappropriate to this page -- in any case, I'd delete this section or at least move it to another page.] 
  --- Anonymous
