Discussions about teaching Python, especially to children.

This will be led by [mailto:david@handysoftware.com David Handy].

Intro from David

3 people teaching python, up from 2 last year, 1 the year before. 16 people attending.

David Ahl (David is looking for the teaching programming book by David Ahl). It inspired him to learn how to program.

Teach people programming as early as possible, even if they don't want to become professional programmers.

His high school dropped their programming class.

There isn't a book anymore which will teach a beginner how to program. He was looking for something simple and interactive like BASIC to teach his children. He discovered Python, but there wasn't an entry level book, so he decided to write one.

He's been working on it for 2 years. Writing a book is hard work. As hard as any coding work he's ever done. _Computer Prtogramming is fun_ Draft, 117 pages. 

Lots of feedback on how to provide it to others, whether to put it on a website. 

ibiblio.org
dawson isbn 1592000738 2003
Python programming for the absolute beginner. Mike Dawson 
anyone new to programming, not specific for children.

Want to promote more free documents under a license that allow people to work together

Josh Cogliati's tutorials are great. Game programming is very interesting to children.

The right way is less important than the way that works. Not too much emphasis on the theorically correct way, should have more emphasis on the way that produces results.

How to eliminate the barriers that are self-inflicted (I don't know how to do this). How do I make quake?

Math is not the best way to teach programming to children. You don't have to give them lots of details because kids like to experiment.

You can go a very long way before you introduce the conception of function.

Panda3D

How important is a graphical environment for teaching Python (Altis) Pycard.

Alice 3d environment

8th and 9th grade with python, they use idle, because they only hav 5 days. They stay bare bones, because they want to learn the language not the tool.

user input, responses, they could do and show to their siblings and parents, having the interaction. 

Lingo, mastermind for words.

Different people find different things more or less successful. There are lots of people who have difficulty with words and numbers, and found the gui more accessible. Try to reach people in all the different learning modes.

Pictures on the screen were important for learning. just because they're entertaining. but may not be true for everyone

Sound is a fun thing to learn how to do.

"Intruder alert" one of MichaelBernstein's first programs.

Programming classes are less available now than ever before.

2d is easier to do than 3d (there's too much math in 3d).

sound: oossaudiodev on linux (or something on windows)
music module, write notes, to play sounds. He wrote a theme song for the book.

who'd the 12 year old: someone who's teaching themselves? yes.
Give the book to the 12 year old, and let them have at it. They'd be more successful with a mentor. The mentor aspect was more helpful than actual instruction. They were interested and encouraging rather than instructional.

A chapter for the parents. How to help someone use this book.  How to share this book with someone.

Computer club: after school club. Programming classes may mena they have no programming club. Adult guidance is important to change from ideas to reality. If you want to do this, why don't you do this first.

High school has a users group, students wrote Guido van Robot. both as a side project, and as a class project. Student and adult mentoring. 
Kids have enthusiasm, and need a bit of guidance.
call your local school and volunteer to mentor children programming.


python tutor mailing list
irc channel? efnet #gimpdev


== Anna or David check your email for interesting data ==

