#format rst

`Download prospectus in PDF format here <attachment:prospectus.pdf>`_

-----------------------
PyOhio 2010 Sponsorship
-----------------------

PyOhio is an annual weekend conference for users of Python, the programming
language famous for combining code quality, high productivity, and pure fun.
Sponsoring PyOhio can put you in the center of one of the most exciting parts
of our region's technical community.

From 2008 to 2009, PyOhio grew from a one-day event with over 90 attendees
to an all-weekend conference with over 130.  The variety of talks and 
cooperative coding opportunities drew passionate programmers from the Ohio region and
far beyond.  For 2010, we expect the biggest turnout ever!

You can visit PyOhio’s online home at `www.pyohio.org <http://www.pyohio.org>`_.

What is PyOhio?
---------------

PyOhio is a two-day conference touching on all aspects of Python programming.
The conference includes seminars, workshops, tutorials, panel discussions, 
open spaces, code sprints, and lightning talks.  All skill levels are 
represented, from introductory to advanced skill levels.

PyOhio 2010 will take place Saturday, July 31 and Sunday, August 1
at Ohio State University in Columbus.

What is Python?
---------------

Python is an open-source, general-purpose programming language available for every common
operating system.  It can run freestanding or on a .NET or J2EE platform.  
Python is applicable to all types of programming problems, including 
web programming, system administration, desktop applications, and more;
it has become a key element in IT infrastructures worldwide.
Many programmers who are proficient in several languages strongly
prefer Python for its clarity, ease of use, and maintanability.

Why sponsor PyOhio?
-------------------

PyOhio attendees are a variety of working professionals, students,
academics, and others who are passionate about technology and passionate about
keeping themselves up-to-date - so much so that they'll take a weekend
of their own to immerse themselves in their favorite (but not their only)
language.  This makes them the acknowledged leaders in their fields, the 
ones their peers look to.  Sponsoring PyOhio lets the attendees know that,
like them, you stand out - that your organization shares their love of 
excellence in technology.  This is your chance to influence an exceptionally 
influential group of professionals with your sponsorship message!

PyOhio is run entirely by a group of regional volunteers, but is held in 
cooperation with the Python Software Foundation.  Your PyOhio sponsorship 
should qualify as a pre-tax business expense; however, if you require a 
an official 501(c) organization to accept your contribution, please contact our
conference chair <catherine.devlin@gmail.com> about sponsoring PyOhio via the PSF.

Sponsorship Levels and Benefits
-------------------------------

Sponsorship brackets are being kept at 2009's low levels.  This is a very cost-effective
way to foster the region's technology leadership!

Anaconda ($1,000) (limited to 3 sponsors)
  * Your logo on session videos, to be available indefinitely on python.mirocommunity.org.  
    (Python conference session videos total over 50,000 downloads from mirocommunity.org per month)

  * Full-page advertisement in conference program

  * 150 x 300 pixel click-through logo/advertisement on PyOhio website

  * Table in conference common area

  * Banners in common area and primary lecture hall

  * Literature in attendee handouts

  * Mention in emails to attendees and wider programming community

Rattlesnake ($500)
  * Half-page advertisement in conference program
  
  * 150 x 150 pixel click-through logo/advertisement on PyOhio website
  
  * Table in conference common area
  
  * Banner in common area
  
  * Literature in attendee handouts
  
  * Mention in emails to attendees and wider programming community
  
Garter Snake ($100)
  * Small advertisement in conference program
  
  * 150 x 75 pixel click-through logo/advertisement on PyOhio website
  
  * Right to include literature in attendee handouts
  
  * Mention in emails to attendees and wider programming community

In each case, the sponsor is responsible for providing the banners,
graphics, handouts, etc. they wish to display or distribute.

PyOhio works by combining the creativity of its attendees... and its
sponsors!  If you'd like to propose a sponsorship arrangement of your
own design, we'd like to hear about it.  Please contact us by email.

Sincerely,

| The organizers of PyOhio 2010
| pyohio-organizers@python.org
